Aight so over the last few days I've been thinking some about the lore of our
game world. Here are some of the things I've come up with. John, you can pick
and choose what you want out of these ideas, or just use them as some
inspiration.

--------------

So Isthmo Candidus is an artifically created landmass, right? And it's been
around for about 500 years before the game started. Well, here's my story of
how Isthmo Candidus came to be.

The year is 3000 or so, and everything is going to shit. Global warming has
submerged several major landmasses entirely, including, by the grace of God,
Florida and Texas. The landmasses that aren't submerged are plagued by
mosquito-borne diseases, air pollution, and dirty water. In addition, the
oceans have become much more acidic from the greenhouse gases that were
released, causing imbalances in the ocean ecosystems and causing mass
extinctions of much of the endangered ocean life. Mostly, that stuff happened
many centuries ago, and the changes have slowed somewhat. But the storms are
worse, the mosquitoes bite eternal, and humanity endures, as does the hardy
cockroach.

Due to the situation, humans have made strides in biology and pharmaceutical
research to keep up with the new diseases and drug resistances that constantly
appear. In addition, landmass shrinkage has caused unrest and war between and
within nations. The richest people of the world wanted a safe place for their
children to live, some place where they didn't have to fuck around with the
mosquitoes and they could live their lives without worrying about dying twenty
to thirty years earlier because of the bad air and the shitty water.  In short,
they wanted a paradise, and they would pay through the nose to get it. They
funded scientists who could build new technologies that would make the water
so pure that you could drink it from the stream, make the air so clear that
you could see for miles, and make the island so invisible that a plane
couldn't see it until it was less than a mile within.

The rich people funded the island, the poor people built the island, and the
rich people kept its location a secret to their collective death. Until
Adler I found his way there by accident five hundred years later, no one knew
where it was.

Here are some of the things that the scientists came up with.

The island is shielded from visibility by several methods. First, good
old-fashioned floating mines lightly discourage incoming and outgoing traffic
by boat.  Second, there are automatic radar-jamming stations under the beaches.
(It's raspberry jam, of course.) Third, there is a swarm of high-flying robotic
solar-powered self-repairing drones that form up whenever a satellite is
overhead (which is, admittedly, most of the time) and send a high-powered beam
of radiation to temporarily take the satellite's sensors offline. Of course,
all of these are mostly unknown to the citizens of Isthmo.

To keep the air and water clean, some biological hackers made a series of
alterations to the genome of yeast. The resulting species are nearly
unrecognizable as what they used to be. This are Isthmo yeasts, and the hackers
made sure that it would thrive on the new island.  These hackers didn't just
make yeasts, either. There are a variety of new and altered organisms that they
put in place. But the yeasts are the most important, because they produce a
variety of enzymes as a matter of course that break down most of the worst
pollutants.

One hacker made a certain breed of yeast that has a symbiotic relationship with
humans, just for fun: now, it lives within human bodies and supplements the
role of the immune system, and helps to heal wounds and broken bones faster. A
person who has very high levels of this yeast will also age substantially less
than a normal person. Typically, a High Sage is one of these people.

The hackers had different names for the different breeds of yeast. The one
that cleaned the air they called Stellar, for the way it formed mushroom heads
shaped like little stars when it grew. The one that cleaned the water they
called Spongiform, for obvious reasons. And the one that cleaned the man they
called Satan; for what reason, we don't know. [Note: you may change these
names, and probably should. I'm bad at nomenclature.]

The Satan yeast eventually gained some nervous-system like qualities that let
it communicate with the human brain. But so far, it seems like its will has
been subordinate to its host's. Several humans have been able to cultivate
the Satan yeast that lives in them in such a way that the yeast can produce
faint radio waves around their bodies. The yeasts in the soil and the water
can react to these radio waves, igniting fires and producing arcs of
electricity, or maybe forming up into a hard surface on the yeast-wielder's
skin. Those who didn't know better might call it magic. And the people on
the island barely know anything about these yeasts, so magic is what they
call it, and what they have learned to live with and make use of.

Of course, too much reliance on Satan fungus makes a man crazy, and our friend
Huxley exhibits this, having a high aptitude for magic. The High Sages, though,
have learned to keep total control over their magic, and it is what they teach
to those who are willing to learn.

And then there's the occasional poor soul who has an allergy. Usually, it's
lethal or at least completely incapacitating.


--------------

Since this was to be a paradise, the people who pioneered Isthmo had to submit
to partial memory wipes of things that caused conflict in human history.
Religions in particular were rooted out of peoples' minds, but also knowledge
of nuclear and chemical weapons, and the Western obsession with having more
things than one's neighbor. Although this was an advanced memory wipe created
by the very best, there were a few things that it could not remove from
human nature, and many people who used to be mean-spirited remained so after
the brain wipe.

The books allowed on Isthmo were tightly controlled, and computers were
altogether disallowed. Most surviving books were either archaic Elizabethan
poetry or instructional manuals about things the founding council deemed
necessary to civilization: how to rotate crops, how to make paper, some
science, some math, some art, but never too much. Notable technological
omissions were ship-building and electrical engineering. The books had just
enough to give a hint to the inhabitants that there might be a world outside of
the island, but no hints on how to get there, or no hints as to whether it was
real.

There were a couple of schools of thought on the island on the existence of
lands outside of Isthmo. One was that lands had existed, but were no more.
Another was that lands exist now, and that there must be a way to get to one.
The latter was confirmed with Adler I, and people who subscribed to it were
more likely to be satisfied living under Adler rule. It reflected a certain
desperation to see the world. There were people who thought that Isthmo was the
only land that had ever been, but they mostly changed their minds upon Adler's
arrival.


--------------

The weather on Isthmo is mostly quite wet, since it's in a body of water. I
imagine Isthmo is at about 55 degrees latitude, which is temperate most of the
year. I don't recall any models of how ocean subcurrents might change given
global warming, but if I had to guess I would probably put Isthmo somewhere
around the United Kingdom. Maybe a couple thousand miles off Ireland.

There are regular storms and long growing seasons, for the most part, and the
weather is rather conducive to growing rice on the eastern parts of the island
(i.e. it floods once a year.) The reason why the Adlers have trouble finding
food is because the fungus on the island has gained partial sentience and
senses unfamiliar and harmful technology, causing it to poison Adler soil.
Of course, this is rather counterproductive, as all it does is cause the Adlers
to invade other lands. It's basically a rather wet desert on the west side of
the island.

Of course, no Adler man will ever leave by ship, because having to navigate a
minefield without radar is a dire proposition at best. It's actually a rather
unlikely accident that Adler I made it to Isthmo in the first place.


--------------

This history is by no means comprehensive, and leaves out much of the
geopolitical situations and struggles between the provinces of Isthmo. But I
think it's a good point to start from, and John should take a look at it and
decide what parts of it he wants to keep, if he wants to keep any of it at all.
:)

There are likely more technologies that the founding council put on Isthmo,
but I've only been thinking about the game world for a week or so and have only
come up with a few things. There are also likely new religions and cults (there
always are in RPGs), but I don't really create pantheons as a matter of course,
so I will hold off on brainstorming those in case someone else wants to step
up.

I also didn't go into much detail at all about the way the economy might work,
or the currency the island uses. I would imagine that we would want them to
have some kind of currency, though. Rich people wouldn't seem to want to give
that up for their children.

We still have quite a ways to go on enumerating the flora and fauna that may
have taken residence on Isthmo. I mean, Sid Meier's Alpha Centauri just had
sentient fungus, and it was a pretty good game, but we can do better.

The goal should be to make Isthmo seem both plausibly descended from Earth and
incredibly alien.
